
		If you’ve ever come across a Liberian Person and listened to them talk, our accent is one of kind. Shout Out To The Bush Report for making these videos!  All my Liberian People Stand Up!!! 
Here’s some of the Liberian English Dictionary
For an explanation of all abbreviations, please go to the bottom of this list.
aayah: interj. Used to express sadness or sympathy. Sometimes used sardonically to make its victim the butt of contempt or ridicule, as when supporters of the Barrole football team, for example, would sing “Aayah, aayah, Barrole got the game,” whenever their team was winning.
asstray: n. 1. Foolish behavior or speech. 2. Absurd or ridiculous action. 3. Insignificant or trivial pursuits.
beat my time: tr. v. To acknowledge defeat at the hands of a rival: “I thought I like zooting business, but you beat my time.”
big, big words: n. Highfalutin, pompous or pretentious vocabulary. Suggests disapproval for the use of uncommon terms in a context where common words would do.
biggity: adj. Arrogance; sense of self-importance, as in “you full of biggity.”
book business: n. Formal or Western education.
book people (man or woman): n. Educated or Westernized persons, with an upper class connotation.
bookish: n. Studious.
call me dog: idiom. A declaration assuring that one will or will not do something; a vow: “If I speak to you again, you muh call me dog.” [Reflects the low regard in which dogs are held.]
calopay: tr. v. 1. To cause an opponent to lose balance in sports, especially in wrestling. 2. To engage in sexual acrobatics. [1960>]
cat eye: n. Light-colored human pupils, especially light brown, hazel or green.
chop money: v. To misappropriate funds from other people or from institutions, especially the government. [See also eat money.]
chop: 1. v. To eat. 2. n. any food or edible dish, especially if cooked.
coloh boi: n. 1. African-American man, especially a hipster. 2. Liberian man acting like an American, especially a hipster. [1940> Derived from colored boy. Probably came into use in 1940s when African-American troops were stationed at Robertsfield airport.]
congosah: v. To gossip. [1960>]
crackay: adj. Affected by mild mental derangement.
dash: n. 1. A gift. 2. A bonus or discount given by vendors to wholesale customers. 3. A bribe. [from Portuguese; common in West African English from Sierra Leone to Cameroon.]
didibah: n. The act or process of corrupting.
don’t lee me dis way: n. Platform shoes or shoes with extremely high heels. Based on tendency for heels of platform shoes to become separated from the soles – and the person wearing the shoes! [Arose in the 1970s, when an R & B song titled “Don’t Leave Me this Way” by Thelma Houston was popular.
dress sharp: v. To dress stylishly.
dux: n. valedictorian.
eat money: v. To misappropriate funds from other people or from institutions, especially the government. [See also chop money.]
fish: n. Vagina.
for true: adv. 1. Really. 2. Not feigned or affected; genuine.
gehdah: n. Rumor or talk of a personal, sensational, or intimate nature. [1980>]
grumbo picken: n. A confusionist or troublemaker. Although the phrase contains the word picken (meaning “child” or “young person”), it does not imply an age marker.
grumbo: n. 1. A loud quarrel. 2. The act of confronting or the state of being confronted, especially a meeting face to face. 3. An emotionally heated dispute, especially a public one, between sides holding opposing views. 4. The act or practice of engaging in such disputes. [1960>]
hala-hala: n. Loud, angry talking; yelling, especially if done in the context of an argument.
 Where grumbo refers to the argument itself, hala-hala refers to the yelling that occurs in that context.
holin’: v. To be sexually well endowed. [Derived from Standard English holding, as in “to possess something valuable.”]
hopojo: n. A prostitute. [1940>]
i-yon taytay: n. Upright, nubile breasts. [Qualifier i-yon, derived from Standard English iron, is used to suggest an exaggerated sense of firmness.]
Jack: n. 1. A fool or one who is regarded as deficient in judgment, sense, or understanding: “Do I look like a Jack?” 2. A dupe or one who has been tricked or made to look ridiculous.
jahfeh: n. Money. [1980>]
knock down: v. To engage in sexual activity, especially when the doer of the action being describe is a man: “He use to knock her down before.”
krokrogee: n. The act or process of corrupting.
kukujumuku: n. 1. A loud quarrel. 2. The act of confronting or the state of being confronted, especially a meeting face to face. 3. An emotionally heated dispute, especially a public one, between sides holding opposing views. 4. The act or practice of engaging in such disputes. [1980>]
kwi people (man or woman): n. Westernized persons, with an upper class connotation.
lappa: n. A cloth wrap widely used by a woman to cover her body from the waist down. [In some other parts of West Africa, this wrap is known as a rappa.]
lappalonian: n. A man who exercises little or no discretion in his choice of sexual partners. [1940> Derived from lappa, the cloth wraps widely used by women to cover their bodies from the waist down.]
manna me: tr. v. 1. To confound. 2. To cause to become confused or perplexed. 3. To frustrate. 4. To acknowledge defeat by a problem: “Dis odder math problem manna me for true.”
monger: n. Rumor or talk of a personal, sensational, or intimate nature. v. To gossip.
noko: n. A soldier, especially a private. [1950>]
pawtoh pawtoh: n. sticky, soft soil, especially after heavy rain. [Onomatopoeic, from sound made by feet sloshing in and out of mud.]
picken: n. A child or person who is younger than the speaker. [Related to pickaninny, used as a disparaging term for a young Black child; possibly derived from Portuguese pequenino, diminutive of pequeno, small.]
roko: n. A shabbily dressed man who is unemployed or engaged in questionable employment. [1950>]
sabe: v. 1. To know. 2. To be clever or think one is being clever. 3. To use knowledge for selfish ends. [from Portuguese; common in West African English from Sierra Leone to Cameroon.]
selfish: adj. Used to describe someone who does not give into the wishes or demands of the speaker: “Dat girl selfish so” might be .
shako: v. To dress stylishly.
shine-shine: adj. Gaudy, metallic-looking or highly reflective clothing, often connoting cheap quality.
soak tongue: v. To drink an alcoholic beverage. To become intoxicated.
sofly, sofly: idiom, equivalent to American “easy does it” or “one step at a time.”
stickee plastuh: n. 1 Someone who will not go away, although his/her company is not wanted. 2. Someone who is hovering. [Derived from sticky plaster, a descriptive phrase used as a synonym for Band Aid.]
swee in yor muf: idiom. 1. A taste of any kind, including aural and visual arrangements, to which one has become addicted or habituated: “Dat song swee in yor muf nah, ehn?”. 2. An oft-repeated word: “My name swee in yor muf, ehn? You betteh take it frun der.
Swee Muder: n. 1. Kool Aid popsicles hawked by street vendors, especially near Waterside bus depot in Monrovia; so called because popsicles were shaped like breasts in conformity to the corners of the plastic baggies in which they were frozen. 2. Platform shoes or shoes with extremely high heels; derived from photo of Prince Nicko on the cover of his album titled “Sweet Mother.” [Arose in the 1970s, when “Sweet Mother” by Prince Nicko and the Rocafi Jazz Band enjoyed widespread popularity.]
taytay: n. Female breasts, especially if still lactating.
tinapaw: n. Canned mackrel. [Derived from the “Tin Apple” trade mark, which was one of the earliest brands of canned mackrel marketed in Liberia. This brand, which features the image of an apple and the words “Tin Apple” on the label, is still sold in Hispanic-oriented grocery stores and supermarkets in the United States.]
today person: n. One who is naïve, credulous, uncritical or childlike in judgment. Usually used in the negative form as in, “you not today person.” Similar to the American expression, “he wasn’t born yesterday.”
tomato color: 1. adj. Light skinned. 2. n. Mulatto.
true, true: adj. pure, without adulteration: “Dat true, true ting Ah talking so.”
tumba: 1. n. Fleshy, shapely female buttocks. 2. n. an accumulation of fat on the buttocks associated with Black women known scientifically as steatopygia.
uklay: adj. Unattractive, but also distasteful: “Dat movie too uklay.”
wahala: n. 1. A loud quarrel. 2.. An emotionally heated dispute, especially a public one, between sides holding opposing views. 3. The act or practice of engaging in such disputes. [1970>]
wata poleece: n. A prostitute. [1960> from Standard English water police, derived from presence of prostitutes along the water front near the Free Port on Bushrod Island, Monrovia.]
wayo: n. A prostitute. [1970>]
zam: n. 1. A fool or one who is regarded as deficient in judgment, sense, or understanding. 2. A dupe or one who has been tricked or made to look ridiculous.
zepsay: adj. Affected by mental derangement.
zoot: v. To dress stylishly. [1940>]
￼.
Share this:
				Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
				Facebook
				Share on X (Opens in new window)
				X
Like Loading...
	Related
		Posted in VideoTagged Liberia, Liberian English, The Bush Report
		Post navigation
		My Past Is Behind Me, But When People Bring It Up…“Dee Just Take The Lay-Up and Not The Double-Clutch Jumper”-Kiakoma Roberts
		Leave a comment Cancel reply
Δ
	Hit Me On Twitter
Tweets by DeeDotShermStay Updated
				Enter your email address to subscribe to Dee Dot Sherm's receive notifications of new posts by email.
						Email Address:					
						Sign me up!					
					Join 1,326 other subscribers				
Blogs I Digg
All Eyes On Who
Almighty Sovereignty
Baller Alert
BBC Ice Cream
C'mon Son
Dee Dot on Facebook
Ghostface
Hypebeast
iHustle Nation
Jets Fool
Maestro Knows
Malice of The Clipse
Necole Bitchie
Player X
RSVP Gallery
Shake Something
Starr Said it
The Life Files
Va$htie
Worldstar Hip Hop
				Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
																Comment							
								Reblog
								Subscribe
								Subscribed
								Dee Dot Sherm																	
																						Sign me up
											Have a WordPress.com account? Log in now.										
						Dee Dot ShermCopy shortlinkView post in ReaderManage subscriptionsSign upLog inReport this contentCollapse this bar					
	%d
		 	Design a site like this with WordPress.comGet started
